You need a degree program so far.
Perhaps you've had moments where you felt challenged,
or a little bit stuck with something new that you're learning.
Maybe you felt frustrated in those moments.
Maybe that's even happening right now.
We wanted you to know that this is totally normal.
All of us face different challenges when we are learning.
The three of us thought that we would share some stories and
information with you about our experiences with this.
I can remember struggling with trying to remember
what I had learned in a class I took years ago.
I tried a few problems from the book I was studying and realized that I had
forgotten so much and felt really frustrated.
I got so frustrated, had to take a break and call a friend.
But there was another funny thing that happened too.
More than usual, I wanted to get the problems right.
It was more motivated to learn the material better in a way that would stick with me.
I also had a different perspective than when I initially took the class.
For my work experiences since then,
I had more ideas about when and how the information would be useful.
In the end, all of this made me feel good because I knew I
had some new sources of motivation to tap into.
That's really interesting. It sounds like
those tricky moments in your learning ended up helping
you understand better how you learn best. What about you Eddy?
Oh me? Oh. Well. I recall when I was learning about neural networks.
I realized that I didn't really
understand the math that goes into training in neural network.
I got confused when I looked at the code.
So I began writing out the matrices on paper.
I was still confused by the math.
So I started drawing circles connected by lines.
The way we normally picture a neural network.
Interesting.
I spent over a week drawing and scribbling simple multiplications and
additions on paper until I finally reached a solution that I was expecting.
Without all the math.
Then I compared it to the linear algebra approach to see that they were the same.
So even though I fell behind in my studies,
it was worth it to me because I felt more confident in my ability to
struggle through something and to not give up when I felt completely lost.
It sounds like all that time and effort that you took to address
this big question that you had really helped you to
solidify your conceptual understanding of neural networks.
Something that I'm hearing from both of you is that
these moments of challenge ended up really providing
you with opportunities to take ownership over
your own learning and make it more effective for you.
I think that's a super important point to talk about.
Because if you didn't feel challenged at some points in your learning,
that would actually be a big problem.
It would mean that the boundaries of your knowledge and
your skills weren't really being pushed beyond where they were right now.
Really that's why we all come to learning experiences in the first place.
The whole purpose of this and Energy Program is to help you students learn deeply
and be able to apply that learning in
a whole variety of different relevant situations in the future.
So when we're faced with problems that build on what we've already learned,
but are just outside the realm of what we know how to do.
Our brain has to adapt.
Find these novel solutions,
and it grows as a result.
So the next time that you feel stuck or
frustrated or puzzled when you're trying to figure something out.
Remember that this feeling is normal and it
doesn't say anything bad about your ability to learn the material.
In those moments, take a second to remember why you're here and what
your goals are and why learning
this tricky stuff matters for what you want to do in the future.
Don't be afraid to take a break if you need to.
We'd also recommend that you identify what's most
challenging and give yourself the time and permission to really explore it in detail.
Remember not to rush yourself because we want your learning to feel cohesive and to last.
Totally. Keep giving your brain this opportunities to grow. Happy learning.